So, what it the best method for learning JavaScript?
When you are a complete beginner, I will recommend to look at examples, tweak them,
change small things, try to understand how the syntax looks like.
Even without deep explanations, without reading a book, or studying in details
the different concepts of language, you can learn a lot.
So, in this section, I propose that you look at a small example
without understanding the details, and try to tweak it.
So here is the example we provide.
It's just an example that draws, that plots, a mathematical function.
So you can use the mouse wheel to zoom in, zoom out, and you can look at the HTML code.
There is only very few CSS and very few lines of JavaScript.
So how can we do the such a complex result?
Complex thing drawing the grid with axes, with labels, with a curve,
and interact with the mouse.
With only 10 lines of code: it's because we are using what we call an external JavaScript library.
Actually, we are using 2 of them here.
Because, this one: the "function-plot" JavaScript library, is using internally another one
you must include also in the document.
So, what I propose is that we will start looking at this example.
The best way is to click on "Edit on CodePen" label here,
it will open the code in the CodePen.io online editor. And... just look at the HTML part here.
Okay, we can just look at the HTML part and zoom in a little bit.
What do we see?
We can see that it uses 2 libraries here between <script> and </script> elements.
This is how we can insert in the document an external JavaScript file.
In that case, it's a remote JavaScript file because we are downloading it using http.
So it uses this "d3js" JavaScript library that is located at "d3js.org".
You can open this in another tab and you will see the documentation and the Web site,
the homepage of the Web site, for the "d3js" library.
By the way "d3js"is one of the most popular JavaScript library for visualizing data.
So let's go back to our example, so you can just tweak the different elements.
If I want to plot a cosinus instead of a sinus, I don’t need to understand the whole
syntax here, but I guess that by just typing "cos" here, it will do something.
And indeed I have just drawn a cosinus.
If I change this for "green", it changes the color.
If I change the grid, that is by default "true", if I say "false", I don't have a grid anymore.
Okay let's put it back. And I've got some "xAxis" domain : "-1, +1".
If I change that for "-10, +10", I can see the result.
So it's more interesting, if you change this for the x values... instead of going from PI to 2 PI.
I went from 0 to 10 PI.
So I can see the result here, and so on...
So now that you tweak the example, you can try to understand what is going on.
Okay, this thing is a name followed by a parenthesis.
an open parenthesis with a closing parenthesis.
It's a function call.
When you've got something like that, in JavaScript, function parenthesis with something in the
middle, it's called a "function call".
We're going to call a function, that, in this case,
we haven’t written, so it's coming from one on the external libraries.
In that case, it's the "function-plot" library.
What is inside? There are the parameters.
And I can use an external name.
I can declare that, here, it's equivalent.
You see that it works the same here, but I’ve just separated the two things.
If I put directly this thing inside here, like it was before, it still works.
Okay, so what is this syntax?
In JavaScript, when you’ve got braces like that, opening braces and closing braces,
it’s called an object.
And inside an object, you've got properties and values.
The properties have names: target, data, function, color, grid.
And the values are after a column characters.
The target is my function.
The data is this thing.
The grid is true, and so on...
So you separate the different properties of the object using a comma
and sometimes, you can have some properties that in turn, have a value that is an object.
So the xAxis property is equal to an object that has a property domain,
that has for values: "-1, 1".
And when you've got brackets, opening and closing brackets, it's like that...
That will define arrays of things in JavaScript.
And an array of things is a list of enumerable elements.
So in that case, the domain has two elements: the minimum value and the maximum value.
And here you can see that the data that are plotted, the cosinus function,
is also an array.
So, if I use the comma and I introduce a second element here.
For example, the sinus function, and if I change the color, let's make it pink... Look at the result:
I've got 2 different functions that have been plotted in my graph.
So I can, instead of using this, I can maybe plot x2 (x square 2), like this, okay.
It should work. Ok, we can see a little bit of it here.
So maybe we will change the domain, so instead of stopping at 1, we go to 10.
Here we go!
And if we look at the values, we see the x square function that is a bit better,
and if we just plot it for x=0 to x=2...
...In that case, i've got another scale for looking at the functions.
So, in this first example, you saw how to use an external library,
what is the syntax to call a function, and how we can define objects in JavaScript
by using a set of properties and values, separated by a comma.
And we also had a first encounter with what we call arrays, that are elements separated by commas inside brackets.